The next question is about
sulking in a relationship.  So here
we're talking about arguments and disagreements in
married life, okay?  Arguments between
friends, arguments with children and grandchildren.  So
today, Yen will talk a lot about this resentment
in response to this one question.
I'm in love with a boy.  After
returning from a retreat at the temple, I understood that I
shouldn't get angry with my boyfriend so often,
but even though I tried to suppress it, it still bothered
me, and then it would erupt.
Every time I have a fight with my boyfriend, I feel
so exhausted. I'm constantly miserable, distressed, and
crying all the time, ma'am.
Therefore, I hope you can guide me on how to
truly eliminate
my resentment and become calmer when
problems arise.  So, all of you here—the
older ladies, the aunts, the uncles, and the
young people—do you often get upset?  Is that so?
Is that correct?  So, when
we want to make amends after this sulking, will we
find it difficult?  Difficult.  It's difficult, but it'll be the same next time,
right?  It's not just this person;
I've experienced it too.  Is that correct
?  I didn't want to be upset, but they just
sulked, and after they got upset, it was
so hard to make up with them
.  I have to overcome
that obstacle myself again.  That's not right.
It means that this person is causing themselves suffering but
can't escape it, and this isn't the only
one.  So,
Yen has a lot of experience with this part
because when she was little, she used to
sulk a lot, but when she realized that
sulking didn't bring anything good, she stopped sulking
because it didn't bring anything at all.
Because it only happened
a little while ago.  It's just sulking, refusing to eat, or being
upset with your parents.  For example, if
something displeases her, Yen might sulk and refuse to eat,
but if she sulks with her friends
and gets punished for it,
she'll just think, "Oh, how miserable I am!" and
won't sulk again.  Then Yen recounted
the story of how, when she was sulking and refused to
eat, her mother took the cane
and made her eat, and all she could think about was
this:  If someone is crying, they should be allowed to
cry until they've had enough.  That's my mother holding the whip
.  So, Yen learned her lesson and
decided that next time, when someone cries, she will
never scold them.  Never before has Yen
given birth and had to immediately stop her crying baby
.  That's based on my experience
.  If you're going to cry, then cry until you've had enough.  Who could possibly be an inmate,
right?  No one can hide
there.  And when someone cries, don't force them to eat
because at that moment, you just have to force them to swallow.  No one can
swallow tears.  Therefore, Yen didn't force her
crying child to eat; instead, she made the child eat without
crying, telling it to stop crying after it finished.  You can
eat when the baby stops crying.  That's also a
lesson I learned from my mother.  Is
n't my mother truly precious?  And from
that time on, she never sulked
again.  I'm not sulking because I know sulking won't do any good
.  Even if they're sulking, they still have to eat, and then when they're sulking
again, they'll be forced to stop eating.  The food
will be served, so I'm not sulking anymore.
There.  That's because Yen learned from a young age
not to sulk anymore.  So
where does this sulking come from?  It stems from forcing
others to do what one wants.   If
you can't force others to do what you want,
then what's the point?  I'm sulking.  For example, on
the 8th of the month, he said, "I didn't give
you flowers because I was busy and I forgot."   Is that how a
lover should behave?  So she sulked.  There are
many ways to get upset.  That means
I only get upset when things don't go my way.
But if it gets what I want, what does that matter to me?  I'm
happy, not upset.  At that time, I
loved him.  He's the best, but if something
doesn't go his way, he gets sulky immediately.  That's sulking.  Because
sulking like that will only cause you suffering and
upset others as well.  The
way to cure this sulking problem
requires a lot of thought.  In a relationship between
two people,
things often happen on a daily basis, even between husband and
wife.
We need to observe the personality of our lover or
husband.
What are their personality traits?  So, once you know
their personality, you can
gradually and skillfully guide them, instead of sulking
like that.  For example, today
this person might be very inconsiderate, but
today, for instance,
they might suddenly buy you a flower as a gift
.  That means at some
point, if I'm very skillful, I
should put that flower away.  And then
what do we do occasionally?  I'll repeat,
you still have the flower, right?  Does that
automatically make other people interested in you
?  What else would be better?  It's a
reprimand.  For example, this time I
got to keep the flower, but next time they might say, "Did
n't you remember me today?"  Don't you remember
me?  Don't do that.  If your loved one
doesn't remember you, it's okay to ignore it.  But
if you remember and say
you forgot today, it's okay, honey.  Right
?  Because what people forget can't be
retrieved, so why bother blaming them?  You've already
forgotten anyway, right?   I'll
forget about it anyway.
Actually, Yen got married,
and since her husband is from the countryside,
he works as a factory worker and doesn't usually
give her gifts or anything like that. He cherishes his wife very much
, giving her all his money, but giving
her gifts is something that's very difficult for him to
overcome.  Because people haven't gotten
used to it yet, right?  Even if it hasn't become a habit yet,
we still need to be tactful.  And in
the end, there was the first example:
giving gifts, doing it secretly and discreetly,
not daring to give them openly.
That's already more than good enough.  And
knowing my husband's personality,
I cleverly handled that situation.  We must use it in
places where we consider it valuable.   It's
precious, and that's a gentle reminder, a
subtle reminder, and eventually, you'll
know how to give flowers properly, right?  Therefore, the
achievements we have gained are due to
our own skill, and we must understand that
this skill is not something artificial, right
?  We must understand people's hearts
.  People face obstacles,
right?  And even more skillfully, you have to be able to identify the
flaws in
your lover and the good qualities in them. You
have to be tactful and choose wisely, because sulking
won't bring you anything at
all.  Therefore, you
should consider the exhaustion of being
angry with your lover, family, or
children, especially when a husband and wife get angry and leave to go back
to the wife's parents' house; the chances of getting
back together are very slim, right?  If a
married couple gets angry and goes back to their
parents' house, it's easy for them to leave again.  Is it
difficult to get back?  It's very difficult.  If living separately
is difficult enough, living together is even
more challenging.  If we can't cure
this habit of sulking, we're truly miserable.
Because when you live with someone who is
always sulking, you get tired because
no one can please them forever.  People have
so many other things to worry about.  Why should
we,
whether male or female, expect others to contribute to us instead of contributing to us
?  People will feel
very tired.  But once you have a family
, if you suddenly leave them, it's
very difficult to come back.
That's very difficult.  So here, we should think about
the difficulty of apologizing, the difficulty of getting
back together, and the fear of being the
one to make amends.  And because of this suffering,
I'm not upset.  So, you need to get to
know your partner really well in order to be
understanding.  If I show understanding, I'll
stop being angry.   Be
understanding of people's inherent nature
and
their circumstances.  And from that empathy,
we will then be able to share.
Sharing is a sign of our resourcefulness
.  I'll know how to skillfully make
people happy when they're around me.
People feel safe around me.  If, out of
10 outings, the other person is upset all 10 times, then I'll just give up on the idea
.  But this sulking
will make things very difficult for everyone.  Because a
woman who is angry with her husband won't love her children
very much.  A little bit of sulking can
sometimes lead a woman who's angry with her husband to hit her child.   That's
usually the case.  right?
Angry at her husband, she might hit the child, or if the husband is
angry at his wife, he might hit the child.  Anyone with a family
knows this, right?  Therefore, sulking is
very harmful.  So,
what was that saying from the old days?
Taking out anger on the wrong person.  So, if you sulk
too often, your children will suffer, right?
When people get really angry, they tend to say
hurtful and sarcastic things, which is not normal
.  They'll start talking about one thing after another,
not like, for example,
sitting and talking to a friend, but then
seeing the husband sitting there, they'll inevitably make a
sarcastic remark.  Because they get
angry easily, they often make sarcastic remarks, which
leads to a lot of problems.  Or,
if the husband saw his wife like that, he'd
immediately go around badmouthing her to everyone,
right?  Therefore,
the less we argue or get angry with each other, the
better.  Let me suffer less,
and let others suffer less too.  The next part
is about the cause of this sulking
and how to practice self-cultivation to transform
this karmic sulking at its root.
Is this sulking person someone who is easily
offended?   Very sensitive and easily offended
.  What
causes this narcissistic personality disorder?  That means we're curing his ego too
.
What exactly is this narcissistic personality disorder?  What's the big deal about just a little bit?
Touching, right?  Just saying something
displeasing is enough to stir up emotions, or
saying something about someone else can stir up emotions in you,
right?  Therefore, they are very easily offended.  People who are
easily offended tend to be very sensitive and prone to
getting emotional.  They say that no matter how far away you are, when
people talk to you, you're still moved.
That means being emotionally disturbed, that means the mind is not at
peace.  He gets easily agitated, even by the slightest thing
.  So now you need to clearly define
which topic you should be discussing and where it relates to.   If you
don't jump from one thing to another,
you'll get rid of that bad karma that makes you so easily
swayed.  People realize that
being emotionally affected everywhere will only bring suffering upon
themselves.  We all remember that
this tendency to speak in a biased or sarcastic way is quite common among Buddhists
.  The worst thing is when you're
not as good as others.  When others
do better, people often mock them, calling
them arrogant.  Then what?
Then they say people are arrogant, but in
reality, they aren't arrogant.  I see
.  We, especially
Buddhists, must be careful because
we must understand that speaking ill of others or saying things that are
not straightforward creates
negative karma. However, we must also be able to recognize
when we might fall into
that trap.  That would have to be in
situations that make you more susceptible to falling into
that trap.  That's when you have a jealous heart; it's
very easy to fall into that trap.   If
I want to insult or destroy someone, if
I dislike someone, I'm wary and
careless, and I might create negative karma for them while they remain
unharmed
.  If you do something for someone else, you can
easily create bad karma.  Therefore, as
Buddhists, we must avoid this.  And in
everyday life, we also need to carefully consider
this, because neighbors who gossip with each other can
easily fall into this trap,
right?  This kind of karma often leads
to sudden, startling illnesses.
That person's physical ailment causes them to be easily startled.
Sleep will be disturbed by those
sudden jolts.  There.  And then, I also have this
habit of stumbling as I walk, guys.
That startled me again!
So, here, it's simply a matter of surprising
us with unexpected actions
.  In Buddhism, this is called the
interconnectedness of causes and conditions.  That means there's only
one cause, but it's linked to
many other factors, and things will
happen to you according to that cause.  So, if we
just refrain from speaking ill of others
, we'll be able to eliminate a
lot of negative karma.  Practicing Buddhism is very
beneficial for me.
[music]